URL: https://freegeek.org/
Title: Home | Free Geek

From November 1st - December 31st, we're in Willamette Week's Give!Guide and need YOUR help to include everyone in our digital future. Learn how you can support our mission!

 

Wednesday-Saturday
 

Technology Donation:
Public drop offs of technology donations
11 AM - 4 PM
For large donations, click here.

 

Free Geek safely & securely refurbishes locally donated technology and gives it back to our community at no or low cost to provide our community’s most vulnerable populations with the digital literacy skills they need to succeed and thrive. What cannot be refurbished is recycled in an environmentally responsible manner. More about our current services here.

 

 

 

 

Donate Corporate Tech

Donate your business's used technology to keep industrial e-waste out of landfills

Shop Our Online Store

Purchase from the Free Geek store to fund our operating costs - 100% of proceeds go to Free Geek

Become a Member

Join community members committed to making an impact and bridging the digital divide by donating monthly

of overall toxic waste in America is through e-waste
of new jobs require either high/medium-level digital skills
households in America do not own a computer
0+
lbs of e-waste have been diverted from landfills.
0+
technology devices have been granted back to the community.
0+
classroom hours have been logged by Free Geek learners.
 
 

Here is our Annual Impact Report!

Refurb & Recycle

We collect over 1 million pounds of e-waste per year from both individuals and businesses, which is sustainably recycled or refurbished and redistributed to our community for free or at low cost.

Distribute

We reuse as much of our donated technology as we can by giving it a new lease on life as free technology through one of our many community programs or low-cost technology through The Free Geek Store.

Educate

Through our Community Technology Education program, we help individuals reach their own goals with technology with a diverse menu of class offerings anyone can learn. Currently our classes are in the works to be moved online.