URL: https://freegeek.org/take-action/host-tech-drive
Title: Host a Tech Drive | Free Geek

Interested in hosting a tech drive to help Free Geek divert e-waste from landfills and get reusable tech to those in need?

Starting a tech drive is easy! 

 

TIME

We suggest running your tech event for a few hours to a few days to fit your needs.

SKILLS

No special skills are required for this activity, however advertising and promotion skills are helpful! Events are most impactful when you can successfully advertise and promote said event.

CAUSES

This activity will collect reusable computers, phones and electronics to support community members in need. Unusable electronics will be responsibly recycled to keep e-waste out of landfills.

PARTICIPANTS

There is no age limit for this activity so you can get your whole community involved! Depending on the size of your event, it can be helpful to have multiple people involved.

 

 

 

STEP 1 - Contact Free Geek.

Fill out this form to let Free Geek know about your tech drive, and get it on Free Geek’s event calendar!

 

 

 

STEP 2 - Pick your crew and set the date.

Get a team of family, friends, and neighbors to help you organize and execute your drive. Then pick a start and end date that works best for your team (we suggest making your drive at least one week long).

 

 

STEP 3 - Prepare your donation vehicle & drop off site(s).

Make sure to consider how much e-waste you will be able to collect based on your vehicle, as well as donation sites. Are you in need of a bigger vehicle? Rent one for the day! Are you planning on having multiple donation sites- a school, a home, an event? Once you have figured that out, it will be much easier to figure out your transportation needs.

 

 

STEP 4 - Get the word out!

Create a flyer, send emails, and post on social media! Tell everyone you know that you're hosting this tech drive, so they can best help you reach your goal!

 

 

 

 

STEP 5 - Start your drive and get collecting!

Start your tech drive and begin collecting your own and other people’s donations. As you start collecting, be sure to take lots of pictures to send to us after your drive. 

 

 

 

 

STEP 6 - Deliver e-waste to Free Geek.

Once your e-waste has been collected and the end date has passed, call Free Geek to set up a time for you to deliver your donation!

 

 

 

 

 

 

STEP 7 - Thank your team!

Be sure to thank everyone who took part in your tech drive and send them a thank you email/flyer. A simple thank you can go a long way!

 

 

 

Have any other questions? Feel free to contact us at drives@freegeek.org

Thank you for your interest in helping Free Geek bridge the digital divide! Please fill out the form below if you are ready to host a Free Geek tech drives and are on step 4 of the steps above:

Name
First 
Last 
Suffix 
Preferred name 
Pronouns 
Email Address 
Where is your tech drive being hosted?
What are the dates of your tech drive?
Would you like Free Geek to share tech drive results on social media?
CAPTCHA 
Math question 2 + 1 = 
Solve this simple math problem and enter the result. E.g. for 1+3, enter 4.
This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions.

FAQ:



What kind of tech can I collect?